Next (#13)
eik-lib/node-client: README.md

# @eik/node-client

The Eik Node.js client facilitates loading Eik config and providing URLs to assets on an Eik server or in local development plus loading import maps from the Eik server.

## Install

```sh
npm install @eik/node-client
```

## Basic usage

```js
import EikNodeClient from '@eik/node-client';

const client = new EikNodeClient({
    development: false,
    base: '/public'
});

await client.load({
    maps: true,
});

client.file('/a-script-file.js')
client.maps()
```

## Description

> This module will load a Eik config from either a `eik.json` or a `package.json` and based on the information in the config provide absolute URLs to assets on a Eik server. In addition to this its possible to set a `base` URL which will be used as the "base root" for files when this module is set in development mode. This makes it easy to retrieve absolute URLs to assets on a Eik server when an application is running in production but also get URLs to the same assets when developing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module will load Eik config from either an `eik.json` file or from values set in `package.json` and then use these values to provide absolute URLs to assets on a Eik server. In addition to this it's possible to set a `base` URL which will be used as the "base root" for files when this module is set in development mode. This makes it easy to retrieve absolute URLs to assets on a Eik server when an application is running in production but also get URLs to the same assets when in development.
```

> In addition this module can also download the import maps defined in a Eik config and provide these for inclusion in an application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition this module can also download the import maps defined in Eik config and provide these for inclusion in an application.
```

> The following will use the information in a Eik config and provide an absolute URL to a file on a Eik server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following will use the information in Eik config and provide an absolute URL to a file on an Eik server:
```

```js
import EikNodeClient from '@eik/node-client';

const client = new EikNodeClient({
    development: false,
    base: 'http://localhost:8080/public'        
});

await client.load();

> // Will ex output: https://cdn.eik.dev/pkg/mymodue/2.4.1/path/script.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Will, for example, output: https://cdn.eik.dev/pkg/mymodue/2.4.1/path/script.js
```

client.file('/path/script.js')
```

The following is the same as above but in development mode. The output will then be based on the vaule set for `base`:

```js
import EikNodeClient from '@eik/node-client';

const client = new EikNodeClient({
    development: true,
    base: 'http://localhost:8080/public'        
});

await client.load();

// Will output: http://localhost:8080/public/path/script.js
client.file('/path/script.js')
```

## Constructor

> Create a new Layout instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new client instance.
```

```js
const client = new EikNodeClient(options);
```

### options

| option      | default         | type      | required | details                                                                       |
| ----------- | --------------- | --------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | path        | `process.cwd()` | `string`  | `false`  | Path to directory containing a eik.json file or package.json with eik config. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| path        | `process.cwd()` | `string`  | `false`  | Path to directory containing an eik.json file or package.json with eik config. |
```

| base        | `null`          | `string`  | `false`  | Base root to be used for returned asset files.                                |
| development | `false`         | `boolean` | `false`  | Set the module in development mode or not.                                    |

#### path

Path to directory containing a eik.json file or package.json with eik config.

#### base

> Base root to be used for returned asset files. Can be both an absolute URL or relative URL. Will only be applied when the module are in development mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Base root to be used for returned asset files. Can be either an absolute URL or relative URL. Will only be applied when the module is in development mode.
```

#### development

Set the module in development mode or not.

## API

This module has the following API

### async .load(options)

> Loads Eik config, and the configs import maps if set to, into the module. Once loaded both the config and import maps will be cached in the module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Loads Eik config into the module. If `maps` is set to `true` and import maps are present in config, these will also be loaded. Once loaded both the config and import maps will be cached in the module.
```

#### options

| option      | default         | type       | required | details                                                                          |
| ----------- | --------------- | ---------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | maps        | `false`         | `boolean`  | `false`  | I import maps defined in the config should be loaded from the Eik server or not. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| maps        | `false`         | `boolean`  | `false`  | Specifies whether import maps defined in the config should be loaded from the Eik server or not. |
```

### .files(file)

> Constructs a full URL to an asset. The URL is build up by appending the vaule of the `file` argument to a base root. By default (production mode) the base root is built up from the values in the Eik config matching where the package for the config are located on the Eik server. If the module are in development mode, the value set for `base` on the construcor will be used as the base root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Constructs a full URL to an asset. The URL is built up by appending the value of the `file` argument to a `base` root. By default (production mode) the `base` root is built up from values in Eik config matching where the package for the config are located on the Eik server. If the module is in development mode, the value set for `base` on the constructor will be used as the `base` root.
```

#### arguments

| option      | default         | type       | required | details                                                                          |
| ----------- | --------------- | ---------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| file        | `null`          | `string`   | `false`  | File to append to the base of a full URL to an asset                             |

### .maps()

> Returns the image maps defined in the Eik config from the Eik server. For the maps to be returned they need to be loaded from the Eik server. This is done by setting the `maps` option on the `.load()` method to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the image maps defined in Eik config from the Eik server. For the maps to be returned they need to be loaded from the Eik server. This is done by setting the `maps` option on the `.load()` method to `true`.
```

# @eik/node-client

The Eik Node.js client facilitates loading Eik config and providing URLs to assets on an Eik server or in local development plus loading import maps from the Eik server.

## Install

```sh
npm install @eik/node-client
```

## Basic usage

```js

> import EikNodeClient from '@eik/node-client';

Reviewer 2: Is the word `Node` of any value here?

Author: Yes. This is very node specific. We might make the same feature for java, go, deno etc. so having a convention on prefixing these is handy.

In addition this module can also download the import maps defined in Eik config and provide these for inclusion in an application.

The following will use the information in Eik config and provide an absolute URL to a file on an Eik server:

```js
import EikNodeClient from '@eik/node-client';

const client = new EikNodeClient({
    development: false,
    base: 'http://localhost:8080/public'        
});

await client.load();

// Will, for example, output: 
// {
//   integrity: sha512-zHQjnDpMW7IKVyTpT9cOPT1+xhUSOcbgXj6qHCPSPu1CbQfgwDEsIniXU54zDIN71zqmxLSp3hfIljpt69ok0w==
//   value: https://cdn.eik.dev/pkg/mymodue/2.4.1/path/script.js   
// }
client.file('/path/script.js')
```

The following is the same as above but in development mode. The output will then be based on the vaule set for `base`:

```js
import EikNodeClient from '@eik/node-client';

const client = new EikNodeClient({
    development: true,
    base: 'http://localhost:8080/public'        
});

await client.load();

// Will, for example, output: 
// {
//   integrity: null
//   value: http://localhost:8080/public/path/script.js
// }

> client.file('/path/script.js')

Reviewer 2: `fileUrl`, `httpFileDescriptor`, `assetFor` might be better than just `file` as you are not getting a file back?

#### arguments

| option      | default         | type       | required | details                                                                          |
| ----------- | --------------- | ---------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| file        | `null`          | `string`   | `false`  | File to append to the base of a full URL to an asset                             |

Returns a object with as follow:

```js
{
  integrity: 'sha512-zHQjnDpMW7IKVyTpT9cOPT1+xhUSOcbgXj6qHCPSPu1CbQfgwDEsIniXU54zDIN71zqmxLSp3hfIljpt69ok0w==',
  value: 'https://cdn.eik.dev/pkg/mymodue/2.4.1/path/script.js'
}
```

If `integrity` of the file is not available, the value for `integrity` will be `null`. This will be the case when in development mode since integrity is calculated upon publish of a package to a Eik server.

### .maps()

> Returns the image maps defined in Eik config from the Eik server. For the maps to be returned they need to be loaded from the Eik server. This is done by setting the `maps` option on the `.load()` method to `true`.

Reviewer 2: `image maps`? Not sure what is meant by this.

Author: Spelling error. That should be `import map`.
